SwipeGestureRecognizer (#6005)
slint-ui/slint: docs/reference/src/language/builtins/elements.md

}
```

## `SwipeGestureRecognizer`

> The `SwipeGestureRecognizer` is used to recognize swipes gesture on the screen in some particular direction.
> Press events on it are still forwarded to the children, but with a small delay.
> If the cursor has moved by more than some internal threshold, a swipe gesture is recognized, and events are no
> longer forwared to the children.

Reviewer: A couple of edits here, more crucially:

- Instead of saying that gestures on the screen are recognised, emphasise that recognition is limited to the recognizer's area.
- This is is typically used for touch input, the use of the word "cursor" may be confusing.
- An internal threshold is not very useful information to provide. I've copied the 8 px we document for the flickable, since that's the same.

```suggestion
Use the `SwipeGestureRecognizer` to react to swipes gesture in some particular direction. Recognition is limited to the element's geometry.

Specify the different swipe directions you'd like to recognise by setting the `swipe-left/right/up/down` properties and react to the gesture in the `swiped` callback.

Pointer press events on the recognizer's area are forwarded to the children with a small delay.
If the pointer moves by more than 8 logical pixels in one of the enabled swipe directions, the gesture is recognized, and events are no longer forwarded to the children.
```

Author: > An internal threshold is not very useful information to provide. I've copied the 8 px we document for the flickable, since that's the same.

On the other hand, this documents and therefore fixes it in stone for further versions.

Reviewer: It's already documented for Flickable. I think the "risk" of breakage after changing the threshold is the same, regardless of whether it's documented or not. It's a user-facing thing after all.

### Properties

> -   **`enabled`** (_in_ _bool_): When not enabled, the `SwipeGestureRecognizer` is not recognizing any events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`enabled`** (_in_ _bool_): When disabled, the `SwipeGestureRecognizer` doesn't recognize any gestures.
```

    (default value: `true`)

> -   **`swipe-left`**, **`swipe-right`**, **`swipe-up`**, **`swipe-down`** (_out_ _bool_): Recognizes a swipe in
>     the corresponding direction. (default value: `false`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`swipe-left`**, **`swipe-right`**, **`swipe-up`**, **`swipe-down`** (_out_ _bool_): Enable recognition of  swipes in
    the corresponding direction. (default value: `false`)
```

I'm also torn about the names here. `swipe-left` sounds like an action, while here it means: Please reocgnize left-bound swipe gestures. Should this be called differently perhaps? `recognize-swip-left: true;` ?

Author: i've got no attachment to the names. Yes, maybe `recognize-swip-left` is better

> -   **`pressed-position`** (_out_ _Point_): The position of the cursor when the swipe started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`pressed-position`** (_out_ _Point_): The position of the pointer when the swipe started.
```

> -   **`current-position`** (_out_ _Point_): The current position of the cursor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`current-position`** (_out_ _Point_): The current pointer position.
```

> -   **`swiping`** (_out_ _bool_): `true` when the cursor is pressed and the threshold was reached. (default value: `false`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`swiping`** (_out_ _bool_): `true` while the gesture is recognized, false otherwise.
```

### Callbacks

> -   **`moved()`**: Called when the cursor is moved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`moved()`**: Invoked when the pointer is moved.
```

> -   **`swiped()`**: Called when the cursor is released and the swipe is finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`swiped()`**: Invoked after the swipe gesture was recognised and the pointer was released.
```

I'm a little bit confused here though. The docs say that this is invoked when the cursor is released, but the example uses the `pressed-position` in the callback handler.

I see the different options:

- Document that `pressed-position` in fact holds the _last_ pressed position, even after lifting the pointer?
- Add named parameters or an enum to this callback that indicates the direction of the recognised gesture to simplify the typical handler that just wants to know which direction was swiped?

Author: yes indeed, pressed-position is still valid at this time and stays like so until the pointer is pressed again.

Reviewer: Okay, makes sense. The docs refer to the start of the gestures, so that's all good then.

> -   **`cancelled()`**: Called when the swipe is cancelled programatically or if the window loses focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`cancelled()`**: Invoked when the swipe is cancelled programatically or if the window loses focus.
```

### Functions

> -   **`cancel()`**: Cancels the swipe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **`cancel()`**: Cancel any on-going swipe gesture recognition.
```
